* I-D its-all-about-linkability

As long as we're sending packets around with the same src IP addr
field being used for a whole lot of different things, these different
things are linkable and if any information at any destination is
linkable to you, you're linked to everything you've done using that
src addr.

The same goes for other [entities] linked to your person, like the
fingerprint of your web browser and [more examples].

[scope?]

- spatial and temporal linkability?
  - temporal, examples
    - src ip; send email using a given ip addr and email addr, later
      use another ip addr but the same email addr;
      person <-> src ip <-> email addr

    - browser fp; browser visiting one site and later another site -- 
  - spatial, examples
    - [todo]

** [[gnus:nnimap%2Badbc:INBOX#52360EED.6060102@cs.tcd.ie][email w/ stephen]]
> * I-D its-all-about-linkability
> 
> As long as we're sending packets around with the same src IP addr
> field being used for a whole lot of different things, these different
> things are linkable and if any information at any destination is
> linkable to you, you're linked to everything you've done using that
> src addr.

Yup. And as long as you need an answer, you're stuck with that.
(Modulo changing your source address, but with BCP38 networks
doing uRPF, you're limited in what you can do, and your MAC
addr will also give things away to those nearby.)

> 
> The same goes for other [entities] linked to your person, like the
> fingerprint of your web browser and [more examples].

Yup.

I think it'd get tricky to define some good goals here - clearly
most people do not want full unlinkability. One could argue that
most people's activities ought be less linkable though. Hard to
draw a good line there.

> --8<---------------cut here---------------end--------------->8---
> 
> I also have this thing buzzing at the back of my head saying "spatial
> and temporal linkability" but I don't know yet how to explain
> it. Temporal is pretty easy, example:
> 
>     - src ip; send email using a given ip addr and email addr, later
>       use another ip addr but the same email addr;
>       person <-> src ip <-> email addr
> 
> But spatial is probably not the right word for what I'm trying to
> express, but it's about linking your separate devices to your person.

I get what you mean. Maybe its two things: topological and
cross-layer (or cross-application) linkages?

Topological linkage for example would include when TB sends out
packets with the src addr from my home lan when I reboot in work
the next day.

Cross-layer would be when the same MAC is used with different
src IPs, or when the different src IPs are used to access my
very own web server host via SSH.

Cross-application might be different or not, but would include
things like the netflix competition correlation.

> Are these terms that are in use in the IETF? Could they be useful? 

No and yes.

> Is
> this anything that I should try to bring up somehow? 

Sure. I think in the first instance it'd be good to do that in
terms of extending rfc 6973 if you think that makes sense.

> I'm a bit at loss
> and entering this arena at the wrong level seems to be a good way of
> being shot down hard. I wouldn't want that, not because of a hurt ego
> (heh, being stupid is part of the game) but rather to avoid burning my
> name with people who I would like to be able to speak to in Vancouver.

You'll be there? Great. Any idea if other Tor folk will also?

Cheers,
S.

> Thanks for any comments on this. They don't have to be too structured,
> a quick comment from a veteran would be helpful.
> 
* I-D blocking-on-the-internet
* problem statement
- secure hardware
- firmware
- software
- linkability
  - over time
  - with FOO?
- fingerprintability (== linkability?)

* involving tor ppl
** TODO to: nick, tor-ass

https://down.dsg.cs.tcd.ie/misc/perpass.txt

topic: Let's remove gmt_unix_time from TLS
owner: ??
wg: TLS
thread: https://www.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/perpass/current/msg00168.html
synopsis: reasonable change, no barrier, good for Tor
draft: n/a

* notes
ben laurie on [[https://www.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/perpass/current/msg00322.html][perpass@]]: "The CFRG is chaired by David McGrew(mcgrew@cisco.com) and Kevin Igoe (kmigoe@nsa.gov)." http://irtf.org/cfrg
* emails with nick on tor-ass@
** From: Linus Nordberg <linus@torproject.org>
Subject: Re: [tor-assistants] IETF in Vancouver is going to be about privacy
To: Nick Mathewson <nickm@freehaven.net>
Cc: Tor Assistants <tor-assistants@lists.torproject.org>, Jacob Appelbaum <jacob@appelbaum.net>
Date: Tue, 10 Sep 2013 09:34:46 +0200 (7 weeks, 3 days, 9 hours ago)
X-Boundary: ____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

Nick Mathewson <nickm@freehaven.net> wrote
Mon, 9 Sep 2013 19:41:20 -0400:

| > 1. How can Tor people help IETF to help us all? Do we want to get our
| > view on things and our knowledge about anonymity into RFC documents, for
| > reference and copying into other documents?
| 
| I think that getting people to realize that privacy in technology is
| mainly a matter of linkability is the key insight.

Good point. I'll keep that in mind.


| I think that there are a number of ways that people have been
| reasoning about security in designs that are not correct; I'll need to
| think more about that.  Perhaps it will turn into a blog post, but
| it's likely to be a contentious and flamebaity enough blog post that
| I'd almost want to start a personal blog for the purpose.

Reading that blog would alone help me frame discussions on lists and in
Vancouver. How can I help you get this started?


| I'll try to think of some more stuff.
| 
| > 2. How can IETF help Tor? Do we want some attention on our protocols,
| > design choices or maybe something else?
| 
| We need better options than TLS.

Did we start working on a design for TLS-minus-the-warts yet? Should we
bring such a thing to the IETF or would that be creating more trouble
than it would solve? Could it be used as a way of putting pressure on
the TLS wg, given they care at all about what protocol Tor uses? I guess
probably not.

Did we enumerate all things problematic with TLS somewhere? The
protocol, not any particular implementation. In Berlin I overheard Jake
discuss some of our current issues with ekr, who was not expressing
immediate disgust in any of the suggestions ("superencrypt" to avoid
fingerprinting, an argument for adopting Salsa20 and at least one more
thing that I have forgotten).


| Somebody should do something about the RNG problem. Unfortunately, the
| most problematic platforms (windows, phones) probably wouldn't listen.

A list of all the major PRNG implementations with solid technical
arguments would maybe be something that the IETF could adopt. That could
make a difference.

I think that the RNG issue is going to become even more important when
we start pushing towards more ephemeral keys.


| Cryptography-related working groups need to stop sucking up to NIST
| standards only. It seems as if this is the year that
| curve25519/salsa20/poly1305 finally gets standardized for TLS, but
| it's far from certain, and it's only the tip of the iceberg.

What are the alternatives? You mentioned ECRYPT in a post to
or-talk@. Could various ECRYPT II reports be used more than they are
today?


| >  I've heard that it might be
| > premature to try standardising Tor right now. Is that still the case?
| 
| Having seen the kind of silliness that sometimes pervades the TLS
| working group, I would hate for the Tor protocol to be subject to such
| ridiculousness.  Also, I'd hate to split the ecosystem into those
| protocols implementing "OpenTor" or "RFCxyzTor" and those implementing
| the latest Tor standard.  Perhaps I misunderstand how these things
| work, though, and there's a way for us to get the benefits without the
| risks.

I agree and I'd like to find out. I've talked to at least two
experienced IETFers who say they want to help Tor. They are Hannes
Tschofenig and Stephen Farrell, both on the perpass@ list. Would you be
willing to try figuring this out with their help? Please let me know if
you'd like an introduction in a non-public thread.
_______________________________________________
tor-assistants mailing list
tor-assistants@lists.torproject.org
https://lists.torproject.org/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/tor-assistants



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

** From: Linus Nordberg <linus@torproject.org>
Subject: Re: IETF standardizing onion routing
To: Paul Syverson <syverson@itd.nrl.navy.mil>
Cc: tor-assistants@torproject.org
Date: Wed, 09 Oct 2013 23:17:17 +0200 (3 weeks, 1 day, 19 hours ago)
Reply-To: tor-assistants@lists.torproject.org
X-Boundary: ____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

Paul Syverson <syverson@itd.nrl.navy.mil> wrote
Thu, 24 Mar 2011 10:36:04 -0400:

| On Thu, Mar 24, 2011 at 06:07:08AM -0700, Robert Ransom wrote:
| > On Thu, 24 Mar 2011 13:20:01 +0100
| > Linus Nordberg <linus@torproject.org> wrote:
| > 
| > > andrew@torproject.org wrote
| > > Thu, 24 Mar 2011 08:01:08 -0400:
| > > 
| > > | On Fri, Mar 18, 2011 at 01:16:14PM -0700, blibbet@gmail.com wrote 0.8K bytes in 26 lines about:
| > > | : 1) new IETF anonyminity list (in addition to their privacy list),
| > > | : and 2) IETF considering ontino routing standardization.
| > > | 
| > > | How can we help #2?  I both fear and am encouraged at such an effort.
| > > 
| > > Meto.
| > > 
| > > I'm currently sitting next to Hannes Tschofenig, on of the authors of
| > > draft-hansen-privacy-terminology and also present at the Boston meeting
| > > Nick went to.  We're now at a developer meeting in Prague precluding the
| > > IETF 80 meeting starting Monday.  As I understand it, he's heavily
| > > involved in the intersection between privacy and IETF.
| > > 
| > > Should I use this opportunity to try to make things happen in this area?
| > 
| > How could having the IETF take control over the protocols used in Tor
| > possibly benefit The Tor Project?
| > 
| 
| The real question is if they are likely to go forward on anonymity protocol
| standards anyway. If they are and come out with standards that some people
| are going to follow, then I assume Tor wants to be part of that rather
| than get into splits between the de facto standard and the official
| standard. (Can you say "Diffie Hellman parameter"?)
| It sounds like they are at least exploring going forward before bothering
| to get the Tor Project Inc. (or other relevant folks).
| 
| Note for those who won't know or recall: Back in the days of the Freedom
| network, ZKS kicked off an IRTF group that included some people from
| the IAB and with lots of drafts (not in that sense) written up by jbash.
| It faded with Freedom. If this does go forward, it may be worth
| reusing lots of that. (Or not Tor design was at most nascent at that
| point. And the world has changed in other ways.)
| Also its eventual demise may or may not also be a source of lessons.

Hi,

Picking up a thread from 1,5 years ago.

The world has changed even more now. Jake made a pretty huge impression
on some of the oldies in the IETF community in Berlin this summer. I'd
like to try to follow up at IETF88 in Vancouver, November 3-8, but I'm
not sure how this should be done and if I can do it all by myself. I
welcome more people to join and/or provide some ideas or even material
here.

I have a couple of questions in an email to this list from Sep 10
too. Anyone want to take a shot at them?

Also, Nick, did you ever write that blog post?



--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
** From: Linus Nordberg <linus@torproject.org>
To: Nick Mathewson <nickm@freehaven.net>
Cc: Tor Assistants <tor-assistants@torproject.org>
Subject: Re: [tor-assistants] IETF standardizing onion routing
References: <4D83BD8E.4010600@gmail.com>
	<20110324120108.GB3529@necrid.lewman.is> <87k4foaexa.fsf@nordberg.se>
	<20110324060708.32f87187@gmail.com>
	<20110324143604.GA87594@buridan.fw5540.net>
	<87wqlmta8y.fsf@nordberg.se>
	<CAKDKvuzGvptgEWSgGr2vZkhbBcdAGuLeW2goJgGz3ed2RFzFMw@mail.gmail.com>
	<CAKDKvuw5nDwEAXAF7n8Y=knvC-JbJ0Fx9pZx7WD6GNVBLMCb7w@mail.gmail.com>
X-Draft-From: ("nnimap+adbc:INBOX.lists.tor.assistants" 24909)
Reply-To: tor-assistants@lists.torproject.org
Date: Thu, 10 Oct 2013 18:52:24 +0200
In-Reply-To: <CAKDKvuw5nDwEAXAF7n8Y=knvC-JbJ0Fx9pZx7WD6GNVBLMCb7w@mail.gmail.com>
	(Nick Mathewson's message of "Thu, 10 Oct 2013 11:51:59 -0400")
Message-ID: <871u3toypj.fsf@nordberg.se>
User-Agent: Gnus/5.13 (Gnus v5.13)
MIME-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii
X-Boundary: ____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

Nick Mathewson <nickm@freehaven.net> wrote
Thu, 10 Oct 2013 11:51:59 -0400:

| On Thu, Oct 10, 2013 at 11:39 AM, Nick Mathewson <nickm@freehaven.net> wrote:
| > On Wed, Oct 9, 2013 at 5:17 PM, Linus Nordberg <linus@torproject.org> wrote:
| >  [...]
| >>
| >> Picking up a thread from 1,5 years ago.
| >>
| >> The world has changed even more now. Jake made a pretty huge impression
| >> on some of the oldies in the IETF community in Berlin this summer. I'd
| >> like to try to follow up at IETF88 in Vancouver, November 3-8, but I'm
| >> not sure how this should be done and if I can do it all by myself. I
| >> welcome more people to join and/or provide some ideas or even material
| >> here.
| >
| > I still wouldn't object to having Tor be in Informational RFC,
| > although I also don't see much benefit to it.  (Being a standards
| > track RFC would be completely wrong.)
| >
| > My experience with the IETF over the last several months (mostly)
| > lurking on the some mailing lists has been that standards -- even
| > informational standards -- get used as an excuse for not improving
| > things just as often as they get used as a reason to do things
| > properly.  I would hate to have anybody implement RFC-Tor in a time
| > when torspec-Tor had diverged.
| >
| > I'm not immune to counterargument here, but watching the sausage get
| > made has turned my stomach a bit.
| 
| On the other hand, I _would_ love to have our specs come up to
| RFC-level quality.  And the ego boost would be pleasant.  And I'm not
| convinced that I'm necessarily right about my fear that a Tor RFC
| would represent a protocol fork.  So maybe what I should do is
| converse with people who want to help work on such a thing.

I think this is the right thing, but only if you (or a substantial set
of Roger Dingledines or Paul Syversons) do too.

The SAAG chairs Stephen Farrell <stephen.farrell@cs.tcd.ie> and Sean
Turner <turners@ieca.com> are the one I think that you should start
talking to. They have multiple times offered to help with all the IETF
specific nitty-gritty of writing drafts.


| Or maybe I should just start rewriting our specs in my Copious Spare Time.

I should have time to help with that, if you think that would be of help.


| >> I have a couple of questions in an email to this list from Sep 10
| >> too. Anyone want to take a shot at them?
| >
| > I'll have a quick look if I can find it.
| 
| Ah. Apparently I'm the person who *did* answer the other time.

You answered the first email, yes. Thanks.

The follow up questions are in Message-ID: <87y575t9ih.fsf@nordberg.se>
(sorry for messing up with the threads in my email from yesterday). 

A quick summary of my questions:

1. Is there a design for an option to TLS and should we bring such a
thing to the IETF?

2. Do we have a list of all things problematic with TLS?

3. Do we have a list of major PRNG implementations with comments on
their security?

4. What are the alternatives to NIST standards? Something from ECRYPT II?

5. Shall I put you or some other Tor people in touch with Stephen
Farrell, Sean Turner or Hannes Tschofenig? They want to help us.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* talking to nick <2013-11-01 Fri>
** standardizing onion routing
- fear is that ppl start implementing after RFC and not current
  protocol, which is evolving
- AP: bring seasoned ietf:er and nick together. stephen and nick sunday?
  ap linus: start email thread today
** tls AP's
- encrypt as much of the handshake as possible, encrypt record types
- encrypt-then-MAC as an AEAD mode
- minimize necessary observable differences between TLS implementations
- make gmt_unix_time go away (or problematic or deprecated or something)
- [No new ciphers or suites should get added unless the proponent can                                         
  point to constant-time implementations of those things on several                                              
  platforms.]
- encrypt TLS record boundaries
- [needs no action] Support the ciphers I like (agl likes them too and pushes them already)
*** chat log
<ln5> nickm: ok, found the older email (Tue, 10 Sep 2013 09:34:46 +0200). listing things from there:
<ln5> Did we start working on a design for TLS-minus-the-warts yet? Should we
<ln5> bring such a thing to the IETF or would that be creating more trouble
<ln5> than it would solve?
<ln5> and related: Did we enumerate all things problematic with TLS somewhere?                                         
      The protocol, not any particular implementation. 
<nickm> I think we should be involved in TLS1.3
<ln5> nickm: and then some things that were discussed in berlin, with ioerror:                                         
      ""superencrypt" to avoid
<ln5> fingerprinting, an argument for adopting Salsa20 and at least one more
<ln5> thing that I have forgotten"
<nickm> ln5: I think that a revised laundry list would be a fine thing.  There                                         
        are a bunch of items.  Some of them , I've heard that people already                                           
        want to have in TLS 1.3:                                        [17:56]
<ln5> nickm: sounds plausible. i'm not a person with a deep knowledge of tls                                           
      though. i can bring up issues though, and try to argue.
<nickm> For example, encrypt as much of the handshake as possible. Encrypt                                             
        record types. Support the ciphers I like (agl is already pushing for                                           
        this, since he likes them too).                                 [17:57]
<nickm> ln5: more TLS laundry list items: encrypt-then-MAC as an AEAD mode.
<Yawning> agl's latest proposal is poly1305 + chacha right?
<nickm> Yawning: yes, and I believe he also likes curve25519
<nickm> ln5: minimize necessary observable differences between TLS                                                     
        implementations.
<Yawning> why poly over the sha-3 finalists?                            [18:03]
<nickm> faster.
<Yawning> (not neccecarily keacc)
<nickm> polynomial MACs are faster than cryptographic digest-based MACs.                                               
<nickm> They have limitations, which is why you only use them in some                                                  
        environments, but for this one they work fine
<Yawning> all the polynoimal macs have a "god help you if you reuse the iv"                                            
          property right?
<Yawning> (not that it's uncommon or problematic for tls)               [18:05]
<nickm> Right. AFAIK, every system that has an IV has the "you can't reuse it"                                         
        property.                                                       [18:06]
<nickm> ln5: Oh, and of course I want gmt_unix_time to go away.         [18:07]
<nickm> ln5: or at least for it to be marked as problematic and deprecated or                                          
        something                                                       [18:08]
<nickm> Wishlist: encrypt packet boundaries. :)

<nickm> ln5: oh, here's another TLS item.  People should admit it when they                                            
        are adding things that are hard to implement in constant time in pure                                          
        C.  No new ciphers or suites should get added unless the proponent can                                         
        point to constant-time implementations of those things on several                                              
        platforms.                                                      [18:18]

<ln5> nickm: "encrypt packet boundaries"? what is that?
<nickm> err, make that "encrypt TLS record boundaries".  Basically, right now                                          
        in TLS it's clear what the record sizes are.  This makes some content                                          
        fingerprinting attacks a little easier to run.                  [18:21]

<Yawning> (are there any block cipers that aren't a nightmare to implement in                                          
          constant time?)
<nickm> Yawning: Most (All?) of the SHA3 finalists (yes I know you asked for                                           
        block ciphers) were easy to do in constant time IIRC.
<nickm> Yawning: Similarly for many (most? all?) of the stream ciphers in the                                          
        eSTREAM portfolio.                                              [18:23]
<Yawning> there's known ways to take either stream ciphers or hash functions                                           
          and get block ciphers so yeah                                 [18:24]
<Yawning> (there's nothing horrifically broken about BEAR/LION/LIONESS right?                                          
          apart from 'slow')                                            [18:27]
<nickm> BEAR and LION are problematic.  LIONESS isn't.                  [18:29]
