References: <7D4BD59D-4853-4B6B-93E8-89EB8DD67051@leheux.com>
X-Draft-From: ("nnimap+adbc:INBOX" 78759)
Gcc: nnimap+adbc:INBOX.sent-mail.2014-03
To: Pepijn Le Heux <pepijn@leheux.com>
Cc: Andrew Lewman <andrew@torproject.org>,  Alex Le Heux <alexlh@funk.org>
Subject: Re: Ripe meeting
From: Linus Nordberg <linus@nordberg.se>
Date: Fri, 07 Mar 2014 09:05:25 +0000
--text follows this line--
Pepijn Le Heux <pepijn@leheux.com> wrote
Fri, 7 Mar 2014 02:13:15 +0100:

| The meeting is 12-16 May and there is a meeting like this every 6 months.
| I think we are late for submissions, but that doesn't mean nothing
| else can be done I guess.
| (Maybe Alex & Linus can give some input here?)

I spoke to a RIPE/ISOC person day before yesterday who said they're
having some delays in the process, so this is the time to submit a late
proposal.
