X-Draft-From: ("nnimap+adbc:INBOX" 57377)
References: <DE920C47-714C-4E0F-BD08-734ED4BB17B0@nordu.net>
	<506E1243.40500@NLnetLabs.nl>
	<15A6303E-6C7B-496C-9373-A9F01B6EBB10@nordu.net>
	<20121008102635.40a91350@shane-desktop>
	<B9FC514D-2AC5-49C5-A667-71ED7A371EFD@nordu.net>
	<yszobkafr85.fsf@nordberg.se> <20121010161547.6127f1ba@shane-desktop>
Gcc: nnimap+adb-centralen:INBOX.sent-mail.2012-10
To: Shane Kerr <shane@isc.org>
Cc: Benno Overeinder <benno@NLnetLabs.nl>,  Fredrik Pettai <pettai@nordu.net>
Subject: Re: RIPE PC?
From: Linus Nordberg <linus@torproject.org>
Date: Wed, 10 Oct 2012 17:29:25 +0200
--text follows this line--
Shane Kerr <shane@isc.org> wrote
Wed, 10 Oct 2012 16:15:47 +0200:

| Linus,
| 
| On Wednesday, 2012-10-10 14:26:18 +0200, 
| Linus Nordberg <linus@torproject.org> wrote:
| > Fredrik Pettai <pettai@nordu.net> wrote
| > Mon, 8 Oct 2012 12:29:24 +0200:
| > 
| > | Linus, you've said that you (or possibly someone else, Roger or
| > Jake perhaps?) where thinking of present the Tor Project at a RIPE
| > meeting. Here's an invite...
| > 
| > Fredrik, thanks for the introduction.
| > 
| > Benno, Shane, hi! I'm going to think of some extra network related
| > topics wrt Tor and contact some people who should be the right ones to
| > present. I'm thinking of topics like "Comparison of Tor Datagram
| > Designs" [1], "IPv6 support in Tor" [2] and possibly something like
| > "Censorhip circumvention" or similar. What do you think?
| > 
| > [1] http://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/~sjm217/papers/tor11datagramcomparison.pdf> [2]
| > https://trac.torproject.org/projects/tor/wiki/org/roadmaps/Tor/IPv6
| 
| Interesting, I think both topics have some merit.
| 
| The paper on Tor datagram designs might be interesting for the
| plenary, but probably the specific issues would need to be extracted
| out and presented. Most attendees are operators and would be curious
| how the current design is affecting them, and what changes would mean
| to their networks. It might also be useful to present some of the topics
| at the Open Source BoF which will happen at the meeting.



What is an Open Source BoF? Present your favourite FOSS project? I can
imagine that being a good place to hunt for volunteers, right?


| As IPv6 co-chair I assure you that getting Tor working on IPv6 is of
| much greater wide interest. ;) I'm also curious if the wider address
| space is used at all, or if indeed it causes problems. If this topic is
| not accepted by the PC, I think we can squeeze it into the IPv6 working
| group. :)

Great. That's what I've been working on myself for some time now so I
should be able to at least give a description of its current status. Not
sure that there's enough real-world experience to have a full talk on
the topic yet, but that might change in time for the conference of
course.

The wider address space is not used in any specific ways by Tor itself,
but the lack of scarcity might of course be a valuable property for
playing whack-a-mole games with filtering. Nothing planned though.

I've been parts of discussions using the large address space for
encoding some information in addresses but nothing have crystallised
from that. I bet a RIPE meeting would be a fun place to continue such
discussions.


| My suggestion is to pursue both topics and we can get them presented at
| the plenary, BoF, or working group as appropriate.

What about the third, something about network censorship circumvention
and what Tor is doing in that area? I don't have a link for that right
now, other than Rogers and Jakes much appreciated presentation at 28C3 [1].

Typical plenary material IMO.

[1] http://media.ccc.de/browse/congress/2011/28c3-4800-en-how_governments_have_tried_to_block_tor.html
